>>TRICIA BARKER: On that fateful
day, I had a head-on collision,
and I broke my back
in three places.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Ouch.
>>BARKER: At some point during
the surgery, I left my body.
It felt as if a different
portal had been opened up,
and suddenly I had
sensory abilities
that I didn't have
while in my body.
I was merging with this
unconditional love.
It was the most profound
love imaginable.
Because of this experience,
I'm driven to help humanity,
I'm driven to help people heal.
That's my motivation.
>>NOORY: Well, welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Tricia Barker experienced
her near-death experience
as a college student, which
completely changed her life.
She is a teacher and author of a
book called "Angels in the OR,"
and she hosts a YouTube
channel called "Be
the Light of Your Own Healing."
Tricia, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
>>BARKER: Thank you, George.
I'm so happy to be here.
I love your program.
>>NOORY: Prior to
your near-death
experience, tell us a little
bit about who Tricia was.
>>BARKER: I was an average
college student in many ways,
but I had some deep
wounds from childhood,
and I very much was
materialistically driven.
I wanted to be successful.
I loved academia.
I really didn't plan
on being a teacher.
But I was running the
Austin 10K as this symbol
of strength and power and ending
my senior year with a bang.
>>NOORY: And that fateful
day, tell us what happened.
>>BARKER: On that fateful
day, I had a head-on collision
pretty much.
So I was on my way
to run the race.
And when this happened, I knew
my life had changed forever
because I could not
reach the glove box.
So I was slumped
over to one side.
My body was full
of pain and heat.
>>NOORY: Were you driving,
or were you the passenger?
>>BARKER: I was driving, yes.
And I'll never know.
The accident was written
down as my fault,
but I feel like it
was fated, that this
was a moment that divinity
stepped in to alter my path.
The other people
were not harmed.
They were in a big SUV.
I was in a tiny car.
And I broke my back
in three places.
>>NOORY: Ouch.
>>BARKER: And had
spinal injuries and tons
of internal injuries.
>>NOORY: Now this
experience that you had,
the NDE, was it in the hospital?
Was it still in the car?
>>BARKER: No, it
was in the hospital.
So eventually, after
17 hours of waiting
in the ER, many CAT scans and
MRIs, I was taken into surgery.
They were a little worried
about the internal injuries,
and I remember
signing this form that
said "17% chance of death."
And I thought, "Hey, I'm 21."
>>NOORY: They made you
sign it in that condition?
>>BARKER: Yes.
And I was like, "Oh, OK.
There's a chance I could die."
I was agnostic, and I didn't
think that I would continue on.
So I went into that surgery
thinking I'm strong.
I'm young.
Hopefully I make it.
So you can imagine
my surprise when
at some point during the
surgery I left my body.
>>NOORY: What happened?
>>BARKER: Yeah.
So somewhere, they
had me flipped over
and there was a ton of blood.
I popped out of
my physical form,
and I could see 360 degrees,
you're not limited by eyes,
I could see the tops of
the heads of the surgeons
as they're operating on me.
>>NOORY: People scurrying
all over the place.
>>BARKER: Yes, there
was so much blood.
That's where I remember thinking
like, "Oh, surgery is brutal.
Look at that body."
But I felt disconnected
from that body already.
I felt different.
There were these light beings
behind the surgeons working
through them, and that
gave me so much peace.
I knew that these intelligent
beings were assisting
with this surgery, that I'd
walk, that I'd later run,
that I'd live a normal life
because I had lost feeling
in my left leg before
going into the surgery,
and I was deathly afraid
of being in a wheelchair.
>>NOORY: Was it
euphoric, Tricia,
to be on the other side?
>>BARKER: That
consciousness was amazing.
So I was someone who paid
attention to breakthroughs
in science.
I cared a lot about the brain.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>BARKER: And I was
on this other side.
I felt so much smarter than
I'd ever felt in my own brain.
I felt as if my consciousness
was upgraded the minute
I was out of my
physical form, that I
was receiving
vibrational information,
feeling information, beginning
to feel one with people
in that operating room.
And then I realized I had died
because the monitor flatlined.
>>NOORY: In the
death process, do you
experience heaven, hell, Angels?
What happened?
>>BARKER: Yeah,
so it was quite--
>>NOORY: Hence the book
"Angels in the OR," right?
>>BARKER: Yeah.
Well, they were the
first image that
was an added reality
to this reality.
So people often say, how do
you know this wasn't a dream?
It felt as if a different
portal had been opened up
and suddenly I had
sensory abilities
that I didn't have
while in my body.
I could see that these
Angels were working
through the surgeons, that
they were working on me
on a physical level, a spiritual
level, an emotional level,
that they were participating
with my healing.
I also knew that they
told me I wouldn't die.
I'd come back to this body
and live this experience.
But when the monitor
flatlined, that's
when I left the hospital,
had my verifiable event.
>>NOORY: Did you realize
that you were dying?
>>BARKER: I knew I was
dead at that point when
the monitor flatlined.
>>NOORY: You did?
>>BARKER: And at that point,
even though the Angels
had said, you'll live.
You'll walk.
I didn't really
want to see how they
were going to revive me because
there was so much blood.
I thought, this
isn't as interesting.
Some people stay in their
near-death experiences
and look at their body.
I thought, let's see
what's out there.
Like, let's get out
of this hospital.
Let's travel.
And so when I went on, I felt
this oneness with everyone.
It was this beautiful
experience where suddenly I
felt connected to
everyone in Austin.
This is where this
accident happened.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>BARKER: I knew their souls.
I knew who they were.
>>NOORY: Weren't you
aware of things much more?
>>BARKER: Yes, much more.
And I moved into the night sky,
kind of, like, into the stars.
It was just beautiful.
And I felt one with
this consciousness
that was coming toward me.
So I felt the light
of God reminding me
of certain messages,
like love is all
that we take with us when we go.
Be like a little child
to enjoy this life more.
Other messages
like remind people
to go to nature for the
truth and for healing.
And all of these
messages seemed simple
and I remember
thinking, "Hmm, maybe I
need a little bit more."
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>BARKER: How am I going to
bring this back to humanity?
But over time, these messages
have meant a lot more.
>>NOORY: Let's watch this clip
of Raymond Moody, an expert
on near-death experiences,
on his Gaia Television
program where he talked about
events going on at hospitals.
When you're in an NDE
situation, you become more aware
of certain things.
Let's see what he says, and then
I want to get your reaction.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- One of the more puzzling
features of near-death
experiences is that it happens
fairly regularly that while
they are out of their
body in the hospital,
the patients will tell us that
they go to some other part
of the hospital or maybe
even someplace outside
of the hospital entirely and are
able accurately to report what
happened.
For example, I had this
wonderful friend, Vi Horton,
who had a cardiac arrest during
surgery for a gallbladder,
and had a cardiac arrest that
lasted 20 minutes, according
to her doctor.
Now when Vi was out
of her body, she
was going out in the
hall in the hospital.
And in an area of
the hospital, she
saw her brother-in-law who
was standing there alone.
And as she was watching him,
a friend of the brother-in-law
came up and said, "What
are you doing here?"
And her brother-in-law
said, "Well, I
was going to Athens
today to see Uncle Henry,
but it looks like Vi is
going to kick the bucket.
So I'm staying around to be
a pallbearer at her funeral."
Several days later
when her brother-in-law
came to the hospital to visit
her after she was revived,
Vi said to him,
"Well, the next time
I die, I want you
to go on to Athens
to see Uncle Henry because
and I won't be fine."
And I interviewed that
brother-in-law at depth
about that, and he said that
event totally changed his life.
Now this is a
fairly common thing
that patients will
tell us these things,
seeing things about the
resuscitation saying
that they shouldn't
have been able to see.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Did those
things happen to you too,
like Raymond just described?
>>BARKER: They certainly did.
I felt my spirit form decide
to go through the doorway.
And you don't have
to open the door.
You just move through into
the hallway of the hospital.
And I didn't want to
see myself revived,
and I saw my stepdad
getting this candy bar down
the hall out of a machine.
And I remember thinking,
he brags all the time
about never eating
sugar and look
at him eating that candy bar.
Later, I asked my mom if he
did indeed get that candy bar,
and she said she was
certain and my dad was
certain at that
moment that I died.
They felt this
overwhelming sadness,
and they both fell
to their knees,
and they were praying
in the waiting room.
And my stepdad came back in with
that candy bar, made a joke,
and split his candy
bar with everyone,
because it was a long surgery.
So I told her, "You actually did
know the moment that I did die,
and you felt it psychically."
>>NOORY: What got
you to come back?
>>BARKER: I saw my
grandfather on the other side,
in that heavenly realm.
He was very loving,
very peaceful.
And then I had the
opportunity to go closer
to that light of God.
I did not get to choose.
I was told to come back.
So at some point, I was stopped.
I was merging with
this unconditional love
that I had never
experienced before.
It was the most profound
love imaginable.
Every wound felt healed.
Everything within
me felt so joyful,
and I wanted to keep
merging with that love.
And then I was
stopped, and I was
told, "No, you have a mission.
Look down."
And I saw this river.
In this river of light,
I saw different souls
that had either their light
or their light was dimmed.
And all I knew is
that there's love
and there's fear, from
the soul perspective.
And I was meant to
work with students
and remind them to go in
the direction of their joy,
go in the direction
of what they love,
and add love to this world,
and let go of the pain
that they may have
experienced in childhood
or in various
situations in life.
And that would be my
mission, to teach.
>>NOORY: Tricia, how close did
you come to witnessing God?
>>BARKER: In many traditions,
and it's certainly
in the Christian tradition, it's
talked about as God as light.
What I experienced
was this light
that was incredibly
healing and lifechanging
So I felt that my soul was
almost back to infancy,
if that makes sense, the purity
that we come into this world
with.
>>NOORY: Wholesomeness?
>>BARKER: Yeah.
Like, all of the pain,
the abuse, the drama,
the negativity, the projection,
all of that was washed away
and I was like this pure
infant in the presence of God.
But I did retain some
of my consciousness
because I was told
I would teach.
And I said, "Oh, no,
no, no, don't you
know I was going
to be a lawyer?"
I was going to make money.
>>NOORY: That was the plan?
>>BARKER: Yes.
And God kind of laughed at me.
I felt this booming
laughter when I argued
with what my mission would be.
>>NOORY: The healing process for
a back is a very long process.
You're still
healing, aren't you?
>>BARKER: I do take
good care of myself
when I have to for maintenance,
to make it through this life.
That type of injury--
>>NOORY: You've got a plate
in your back, don't you?
>>BARKER: I have very
large rods that attach.
In the '90s, they put the rods
above where you broke your back
and below it.
>>NOORY: Are they
by your spinal cord?
>>BARKER: Mhm, they
kind of surround.
>>NOORY: How long are they?
>>BARKER: Over 6 inches.
So there's certain
yoga moves I can't do.
>>NOORY: How many are in here?
>>BARKER: Two rods.
>>NOORY: My God.
>>BARKER: Yes.
>>NOORY: About that long?
>>BARKER: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Running up
and down your spine?
>>BARKER: Yes, yes.
>>NOORY: Can you feel
it when you bend over?
>>BARKER: Yeah.
There's certain
movements I can't.
I can't touch my toes.
>>NOORY: Do you let off
an airport detector?
>>BARKER: I do.
I do.
So sometimes I have
to stand in that line
with people who have
plates in their heads, who
have all kind of--
>>NOORY: Do you have to give
them a document or something?
>>BARKER: They understand.
But, yes, I do have pictures
on my phone of the MRI.
>>NOORY: How are
you feeling now?
>>BARKER: I work
with meditation.
I work with my Angels
to basically help
me deal with pain.
And I take no pain medicine.
I believe in, for the most
part, just using consciousness,
movement.
And really, if I'm here, I
have a mission to spread love,
and so I will be supported.
And when it's my time to
go, it's my time to go.
I think near-death
experiences souls
are totally at ease
with the dying process
whenever it occurs.
>>NOORY: What is life
like for you now?
Now that you've come back,
what have you experienced?
I mean, can you smell the
flowers a little better
than you used to?
>>BARKER: The first year after
the near-death experience,
I was in love with
plants, animals, people.
I just felt this oneness, this
consciousness that blended
literally with everyone.
I had many psychic
flashes, many just
moments of deep understanding.
I mainly channeled that
into my teaching profession,
and that's what
I still do today.
But my mission has
expanded in the sense
that I talk to people
beyond traditional academia.
And when my father died, my
mediumship abilities opened up,
and I followed him
into the afterlife.
And now I do some
medium readings
and some intuitive readings.
>>NOORY: Well, good for you.
What would you say is the most
dramatic change in your life
since the NDE?
>>BARKER: Absolute joy.
I'm ecstatic about being here.
I think before that
near-death experience,
I wasn't as ecstatic and
in love with being here
but also with this other side.
I mean, I felt like my
consciousness was very much
contained in my body before
that near-death experience.
Now it's--
>>NOORY: Blossomed out, has it?
>>BARKER: Yeah.
It's hard not to blend
with other people.
It's hard not to want to
help people like that.
That empathy was
initially very deep.
And then these
gifts were something
that I was initially
only using with students.
I never charged for this.
But people found
out about my story.
And I see that it
can really help,
that grief is an intense
process for people.
And when they're able to
connect with their loved ones,
get verification, feel more
peace, feel that connection,
it's healing for them.
>>NOORY: Tricia, let's go
back to Raymond Moody who
talks about, as you
have just mentioned,
some of the after-effects
of a near-death experience.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Near-death experiences
affect people very profoundly,
and they have certain kinds
of predictable effects.
The most dramatic
one is that whatever
they are chasing in life--
and I have spent my
life chasing knowledge.
Some people spend their life
chasing power or money or fame
or any of these other things.
--but it's striking
to me that whatever
they have been chasing in
life, when people come back
from this experience, they say
that what this is all about
is learning to love.
And they say that is what comes
forward in your life review.
Now I also immediately
want to say
that they say also that it
doesn't make that any easier.
My friend George Ritchie,
the first living person
I ever knew who had had this
experience, said, "Raymond,
this experience makes
your humanity even more
of a burden in a way.
And to translate George's
words into my vernacular
because I've heard this
from a lot of people,
what he was saying
is let's face it.
It's very difficult to get
through the average day
without wanting to choke
at least one other person,
and that reality stays the same.
So they come back realizing
the importance of the quest
to learn to love, and
yet still find themselves
in a human situation.
So that's one after-effect.
The other after-effect
is people say that it
eliminates the fear of death.
Not that they would want to die
in a painful or unpleasant way,
but from their experience, they
interpret death as a transition
into some other and more
desirable realm of existence.
So they have no
more fear of death.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Are you
afraid of dying again?
>>BARKER: Not at all.
In fact, I've been tested.
I was in a plane
that was going down,
and we had to make
an emergency landing.
And everyone around me
was screaming and crying.
We were in crash position.
I grabbed the hands of
the people next to me,
and I said, "Our souls
will leave our bodies.
We will not feel this pain.
We'll immediately
be in the light.
Have no fear.
Meditate on God."
And I was just ready to go.
>>NOORY: Did they
hold your hand?
>>BARKER: They did.
They were crying.
And one guy next to me
was saying, "I have kids."
I was like, "You'll
meet them again.
It will be fine."
I was just at peace.
I thought, "Oh, this
is a little early.
I didn't think I
would be dying."
>>NOORY: So you're not
afraid of dying again?
>>BARKER: No.
>>NOORY: But you're in
no rush to get there?
>>BARKER: No.
No one likes physical pain.
And to that first
part of his question,
there are great difficulties
in the average day
and in the average life.
And I think that spiritual
perspective, though,
does add a little levity to it.
You can choose the lighter
side of the darker things
that we have to traverse here.
And so I do find value
in having that one
foot in the spiritual realm.
>>NOORY: I've always
wondered, Tricia,
what it's like for
someone who dies,
what they experience
instantly when that happens,
when they are no longer
alive in their physical body.
What's that transition like?
I mean, do they
realize, "I've died,"
or something that's happened?
>>BARKER: There's
only in a few cases
a trauma loop I've heard about
where people don't understand
what's happened, but most
people feel enormous peace.
They're met by people they
know over there who love them.
They're met by light beings.
They're met with a consciousness
that gives them great peace.
So when we're in
the body, of course,
we're going to have fear
about losing this body.
The minute we're out of this
body, we don't care anymore.
We're not attached to it.
And that detachment,
that detached state,
is amazing because you
realize, oh, I do go on.
There is something larger
than this consciousness
that I contain right now.
There's something that goes on.
>>NOORY: How did
your family react
to your near-death
experience, Tricia?
Were they supportive?
Did they think you
are part of the devil?
I mean, what happened?
>>BARKER: At first,
they were supportive.
My father was supportive.
My mother was at first,
but her minister, she
is an evangelical
Christian, and her minister
feared near-death experiences.
He gave her a pamphlet that
said that they're of the devil,
and people--
>>NOORY: Oh, my gosh.
>>BARKER: --often get
divorced or commit suicide
after near-death experiences.
>>NOORY: He didn't
get it, did he?
>>BARKER: No.
And I said, "Mom, even this
pamphlet reeks of fear."
I said I can touch it,
and I can feel the fear.
And I know that
there's only love
and there's only fear here.
And what I know is that
I'm a better person.
because of this experience,
and I hope you see that.
I hope you see that I'm
driven to help humanity.
I'm driven to help people heal.
That's my motivation.
Before this experience,
my motivation
was how to make Tricia
rich, how to make
Tricia look good throughout life
and heal everything within her.
Now I flipped to how do I
help other people succeed?
how do I help them shine?
And through that, I feel the
light working through me.
And I think that's a huge
change within an individual.
But, yeah, there
are people who fear
that the devil creates some
sort of light and tricks people.
And I want to say
to everyone who
believes that give near-death
experiencers a chance.
Our souls know the difference
between fakeness and truth
in that realm.
>>NOORY: Are you on a
mission to educate, to teach?
>>BARKER: I am, but my mission
is more around healing now.
I think the more
we let go of pain
and we connect to that
unconditional love,
the more we live our
lives more joyfully.
>>NOORY: Are you tapping
into your soul to do that?
>>BARKER: I'm tapping
into angelic information.
I'm tapping into
energy that is simply
here and available on
the planet right now,
that people are
awakening at great rates
in the last few years,
which is amazing.
That there's more of a
language in younger people,
I'm noticing this at the
colleges, for spirituality.
>>NOORY: Have you
witnessed miracles
since all this has
happened to you?
>>BARKER: Yes, I've witnessed
many different life changes
in students that I've worked
with where their paths have
altered in one lecture.
I felt the other side
talk through me, move
through me, channeling perhaps.
And I don't even know
what I'm saying sometimes,
but students after a lecture--
>>NOORY: Are you aware of it?
>>BARKER: Yeah, sometimes
I'm aware that there's
this energy that's
moving through me.
And one student in
particular came up,
hugged me after a
lecture, and said, "I'm
going to join the Peace Corps.
I just felt that something
you said in lecture today
prompted me to do this."
>>NOORY: Would you
recommend everybody
go through an experience
that you went through?
>>BARKER: No.
>>NOORY: I didn't think so.
>>BARKER: Awaken
much more gently.
I think meditation
can awaken you.
I sometimes joke that
near-death experiencers
are dramatic people
and stubborn people
because we have
some big lessons.
But we also bring back gifts
of how to heal the body too
because that spirit
world does participate
with the healing of the body.
So I would recommend that people
meditate, that they open to it,
ask for it, practice
with lucid dreaming.
Find a simple way to simply
open to that knowledge
and open to that intuition.
>>NOORY: How has
this changed you?
>>BARKER: It's changed me
in so many different ways.
But like Raymond Moody
said, one of the main ones
is this absolute
acceptance of death.
I think a lot of times life
is like a grieving process.
>>NOORY: You would not have
accepted death prior to this?
>>BARKER: I think I would have
been on the same trajectory
most people are.
And when you're young,
you're in denial.
You kind of get depressed
about it at some point
and then you accept it.
>>NOORY: Or you don't
even think about it.
>>BARKER: Yeah.
And I just went
straight from denial
to acceptance, just
absolute acceptance.
We all die.
How can we be joyful?
How can we experience more
bliss here in this moment?
And how can we live good
lives, do no harm to anyone?
>>NOORY: Now you're
working with students
since this near-death
experience.
How have you given
them the ability
to see what their
purpose in life
is through your experience?
>>BARKER: One student in
particular comes to mind.
She lost her father, and
he came to me in spirit.
And he said, "Ask her if she's
open to receiving a message
from you after class."
And so I asked her
directly if she
would mind if I gave her
a message from her dad.
And her dad said, "Don't
take this personally,
but academia is not where
she needs to be right now.
She has a different dream,
and she needs to follow that."
And so I said, "Do you have a
dream outside of academics?"
And she said, "I'm
an amazing chef.
I want to open a food truck,
and I want to do this."
And I said, "You're
meant to do this."
>>NOORY: Dad said
go for it, right?
>>BARKER: Yes, dad said do it.
And she just burst
into a great smile,
said, "I totally believe this,"
and ran out the door, drop
classes and followed her dream.
>>NOORY: And she's doing it now?
>>BARKER: Yes, yes.
>>NOORY: That's fantastic.
On Gaia's "Open
Minds," Jean Slatter
discusses four questions
that we can ask ourselves
about life's purpose.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Well, it all gets down to
asking the right question.
- Right.
Yeah.
- Because I always
say, don't just
stop at the most
obvious questions.
Go deeper.
As you go deeper, you may get
the fullness of the picture
and it's like little
pieces of the puzzle
that you're trying to
understand about your life.
So the most important
thing is for you
to remember that who you are
is a spiritual being having
this human experience.
So as a spiritual being,
it's understanding
that you are a
creator of experience
and you have in mind
certain experiences you want
to receive from
your life in order
to know the truth of something.
For an example, before
your soul incarnated,
your soul might
have said, we want
you to really understand what
it's like to rescue yourself.
We want you to really
understand what
it's like to love yourself.
We want you to really
understand and experience
what it's like to
love someone else.
Whatever it is that
your soul decided
to experience when
it came here, it
began to create experiences
that would support that.
So all of your life experience
is going to be molded
into getting what it is your
soul desire to know that you
haven't.
- Which doesn't have anything
to do with your conscious mind's
desire?
- No, no.
- You can be at counter
purposes in an entire lifetime?
- Right.
- And I hear that, even
when people are of age where
they retire saying,
"I just haven't gotten
to what it is I think I
want to do yet or the thing
I think I'm here for yet."
- Right.
So there's different aspects
of when we ask ourselves,
what's our purpose?
We're asking four
main questions really.
- Right, right.
- We're asking, what is it
that I want to know of myself?
What is it that I want
to experience and express
of myself?
What is it that I want
to do for a vocation?
That's only one of the four.
And what is it my soul
desires above all else?
So when we're asking that
question, what's my purpose,
and what is it I'm here
to do, and all that,
we don't realize it,
but we're actually
asking four different
distinct questions.
- Absolutely.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: She's got
a good handle on it.
You agree with her?
>>BARKER: I do.
I do.
And I had an easy
go of it because I
was given a direct mission
for so long from creator.
I was given this
mission to teach
and that made the
process easy because I
knew that as I was
helping others,
I was channeling that light
that ended, though, for me.
I felt this booming voice
about five years ago,
saying your mission is
complete, and I kind of
laughed and thought, "Oh,
let's do a transition now?
Is this ending?"
And what I realized is that I
was in that place of freedom,
that I understood that service
to humanity in some form,
you know, using our gifts in
some way is helping humanity.
So I've been opened up to
possibilities beyond teaching.
>>NOORY: In your book,
"Angels in the OR,"
tell me a little bit
about that cover.
It's fascinating.
>>BARKER: That's what it
looked like looking down
on the heads of the surgeons.
I remembered that perspective.
And then that light
from the light beings,
the Angels, when it went into
my body, it was information
and it was also light.
So it was communicating a
lot of things at one time.
And that's really one
of the first impressions
I had outside of body.
And as an agnostic, I was
so happy to see that scene,
I have to tell you.
>>NOORY: It's a great cover.
>>BARKER: Thank you.
>>NOORY: Great cover.
What was the mission
that you were
trying to portray to people?
>>BARKER: The
mission is whatever
it is that you are
encountering, there's
always healing that can
be brought to a situation,
even if it's tough.
In a school district
where one in five students
are dealing with
some sort of abuse,
what is the light that you can
bring to those students who
have emotional problems, who
have difficult home lives, who
have challenges that are hard
to wrap your head around?
Sometimes it's just kindness.
Sometimes it's just a
moment of belief in someone.
Love expressed as a form
of service to humanity
can alter someone's
path, and we don't even
know that we altered their path.
That's what a lot of
near-death experiencers see.
It's these small
moments of kindness
that prevent suicide
sometimes, that really
alter people's existence.
>>NOORY: Tricia, why does it
take a near-death experience
to get to this point?
>>BARKER: Ego.
We're so ego-driven, I
think, here in this world.
And the minute
you die to it, you
die to this vehicle that's
transporting you through life,
then you realize that, oh,
that was a selfish desire.
It's OK to express
my personal joy.
But how do I do this in a way
that works with the lighter
side of things.
>>NOORY: Would you say
your mission is complete?
>>BARKER: I would
die happy today.
I would feel like I made--
>>NOORY: Don't die.
>>BARKER: No.
>>BARKER: I would feel like I
made enough of a contribution
through teaching and
through writing this book,
but I feel that there's a lot
that the world is going through
and that people who are
spiritual can still be--
we still can show the way,
shine the light on ways
to bring humanity together
in different ways.
>>NOORY: When you tell
people you have an NDE,
do they get it?
>>BARKER: Many people
do, and it is exciting.
In random crowds,
say, I'm at a party,
and someone asks me about
the near-death experience.
Suddenly everyone looks
like a child to me.
They're curious.
They want to know more.
>>NOORY: Do they know what
you went through, mostly?
>>BARKER: They want to know.
People are curious in general.
So I think it's a story
that helps people.
>>NOORY: I mean, do they
whisper in the corner,
"That's the one who died."?
>>BARKER: Most people are
extroverted enough just to ask
their questions, I think.
But maybe.
>>NOORY: Do they
know about your book?
>>BARKER: I have students
who've read my book
and asked me questions.
I do connect with people
who have read the book.
So it's always fun.
We always grow and evolve
in a chain and change.
So even after
writing the book, I
have continued to grow, release
more, connect to more light.
So it's always an
evolution process.
>>NOORY: Are your
psychic abilities
enhanced because of the NDE?
>>BARKER: Definitely.
So I felt like I was outside
of time that first year
and that was a
little disorienting.
I would know what was going
to happen 10 minutes before it
happened at times.
And there were just
jumps and consciousness.
Eventually, I asked that
if I was given information,
that it'd just be
given to me in a dream
to prepare me the next
day or just in the moment
that I needed it
working with the student
or talking with someone
who's cutting my hair
or just someone
might need a message,
that I asked that it not be
overwhelming because at first,
it was overwhelming.
>>NOORY: Do people believe
when you tell them you died?
>>BARKER: My agnostic
friends, it took so long.
And it wasn't until
I wrote this book
that one of my agnostic
friends, she always said--
this is how she puts it.
She said, "I believe
that you believe
you had that experience."
And that's her literal mind.
>>NOORY: So do the
doctors, don't they?
>>BARKER: Yeah,
the doctors tried
to shut me down from
talking about it too much,
and I can intuitively see.
>>NOORY: It scares them.
>>BARKER: They did not
want to go down that path.
But, yeah, the agnostic
friends that read my book
said they have
contemplated death
and they've
contemplated what it's
like when they die a little
bit more because of knowing me.
>>NOORY: I mean, do you
remember and recollect things
that they were talking
about while they
were performing the surgery
on you, trying to save you?
>>BARKER: I remember that
there was an Elvis song playing
on the Easy Listening station.
I've never been able
to verify that or find
what was on the
radio at that time,
but I know they had on Easy
Listening music or a CD that
was kind of Easy Listening.
>>NOORY: I'm going to guess
what the Elvis song was.
If I'm right, maybe
I had an NDE too.
"Can't Help Falling in Love."?
>>BARKER: "Suspicious Minds."
>>NOORY: "Suspicious Minds."?
>>BARKER: Yes.
>>NOORY: That's a classic.
>>NOORY: But you remember that?
>>BARKER: Yeah.
And I just remember thinking
he's a good musician.
>>NOORY: When you
hear that song today,
what does that do for you?
>>BARKER: It transports me
into two different locations.
It's like I'm outside of body,
hearing that, seeing that room,
and just remembering that
this really happened and this
changed my-- it was
such a massive turning
point and physically
painful, to be honest.
After the surgery, there was
a lot of pain within my body.
So it brings back some of
the trauma, some of the PTSD,
but it also brings
back that light.
>>NOORY: Dr. Lauren
Cielo is on the program
and talked with us about
psychic abilities that help you
see the larger picture of life.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- I think that the great
thing about being clairvoyant
is it takes your awareness
from the daily things that
are going on and it
gives you a bigger,
overarching understanding.
I'll give you a good example.
I do end of the year
readings, helping people
look at the energy
for the next year.
And so when our lives
changed so quickly
at the beginning of 2020, I
went back to those readings
and I'm like, "So what
was I picking up?"
And I do remember a
very interesting energy
that kept showing up
on people's readings
that I'd never seen before.
And it was a global
community healer,
that the people I
was reading would
be needed, for some
reason, to heal
their community or the
world, and I never saw that
in those readings before.
They might do healings
with their family
or maybe a professional
healer but nothing
on a worldwide scale.
So when I went back
and looked, I'm like,
"That's the shift that
we're living through."
But the way I saw it wasn't
that something terrible
is going to happen, no.
You're going to
get a chance to be
a healer to the entire planet.
So that's what
clairvoyance does.
It might take the
nitty-gritty of the day
but then puts it into a really
big tapestry that you can maybe
get a better understanding of
your role in what's coming up.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: You know what's
amazing about people who have
had near-death experiences?
They all seem to have
very similar occurrences,
don't they?
>>BARKER: They do.
Many people feel that
unconditional love and that
changes them forever,
and many people
feel a greater
connection to others,
that we're a global community,
that we're connected
to one another somehow.
I think I felt so contained
within my own body
and my own consciousness
before that, then
I could hardly tell the
difference between where
I ended and others
begin right after it.
I mean, when I was in that
room coming out of surgery,
I felt I was a part of the
nurse handing me ice chips,
I was a part of my surgeon.
I couldn't push all
that consciousness back
into this body.
And so that is a
meditation that I think
is worthy, that we lose a lot of
the pain in this existence when
we remember compassion for
all, compassion for all living
beings.
>>NOORY: Does the NDE help
your physical healing process?
>>BARKER: Oh, yes.
I got out of body many times
so that I could avoid the pain.
So in those first four
months of bed rest and I
was in a body cast and
learning to walk again,
at night if I couldn't sleep
because of the red, hot pain,
I would meditate.
I'd connect with those Angels.
I'd see them continuing
to work on my spine.
I'd have lucid dreams.
I'd circle around the world
and really just kind of get
away from the physical pain.
But I was told not
to take painkillers
and to work through
it at my body's
natural rate of progression.
So I would push myself each
day to do more, but not
more than I could actually
handle without medication.
>>NOORY: How do you feel today?
>>BARKER: I had a
wonderful run without pain.
This happened in my
20s until my late 30s.
And then I begin to
have to do yoga and go
to chiropractors in order to
manage pain throughout life.
But for the most
part, I feel great.
>>NOORY: Do they
tell you what things
will be like when
you're 60 or 70
in terms of the healing process?
>>BARKER: My late
30s, early 40s,
they told me I had the
back of a 60-year-old.
And so as I age,
that is a concern.
But what I've heard
from Angels' guides,
and people are going
to start bringing
in so many more
healing modalities,
physically, emotionally, and in
so many ways in the next five
years.
Kind of pertaining to that
video, that don't be concerned.
So much healing is
coming to this planet
in so many different ways.
>>NOORY: Sure.
So are Angels watching over you?
>>BARKER: They're
watching over everyone.
I believe we each have Angels
and we can call on me--
>>NOORY: No question,
guardians too.
>>BARKER: Yes.
If you are afraid, call
on them for protection.
If you're driving
through a storm,
if you are in need
of healing, ask
them to participate
with your healing.
And one thing I tell people
about healing is a lot of times
we're irritated.
We break our foot, we're
irritated at that foot.
How could you break?
Send it love, ask the Angels
to send it love and it
will heal faster.
>>NOORY: How can
people find you?
>>BARKER: Yeah, so I'm pretty
easy to find on YouTube.
If you type in Tricia Barker
NDE or Tricia Barker YouTube,
you will find me and my
website, triciabarkernde.com.
>>NOORY: Tricia, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>BARKER: Thank you
so much, George.
You have a great show.
>>NOORY: I'm in no rush to
have a near-death experience,
but if it ever happens, I
think I'll be ready now.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."